[Music]
the debate around how good or bad video
games are for us
has been going on for years ever since
games like pong
and tetris some people have claimed that
video games are
bad for us but fear not gamers it turns
out that playing them
is really no different than going to the
gym it's just a workout for your mind
instead of your muscles
games just seem like fun but they also
increase gray matter
the gray matter in your brain is the
part of your central nervous system
and essentially controls all your
brain's function
these include regions of the brain
involved in muscle control
and sensory perception such as memory
hearing
seeing emotions speech decision making
and self-control
basically all the most important things
it makes sense to keep this part of the
brain healthy
because it will lead to faster thought
processes and improvements in general
well-being and quality of life
at the university of rochester in new
york researchers found that playing
video games
increased the player's sensitivity to
things going on around them
playing action games compared to slower
games increased the performance in
visualization tests by 25 percent
this benefit doesn't just make them
better at playing video games
it improves a wide variety of general
skills that can help with everyday life
like driving or finding your friends in
a crowd
this in no way means that you get to sit
in front of your console
or pc and play for hours or days on end
to get smarter
it just means that those who still like
to immerse themselves in the game or
fantasy world
no longer need to feel guilty about
sitting back and playing
if setting goals in life seems tough it
might be time to look at video games for
this very reason
people who've played video games know
how to track their own growth
because everything is measured in the
game you'll have experience points
levels goals and objectives all of this
information needs processing
so it teaches us to track progress and
form our own goals
in a lot of games there are daily quests
if you miss a day
you don't get those rewards this makes
gamers integrate these tasks into their
daily lives
some of the very best gamers create a
structure of small habits or routines
they perform each day that build over
time
the satisfaction of getting that new
skin you're after
can lead to pushing through all the
boring bits to get to that prize
there might have been a time when you
would draw in the phone book while
talking to your friends on the phone for
hours just looking for something to do
although people might be more physically
isolated now
games allow them to still have engaging
experiences with their friends and
family
they're spending as much time with their
friends but getting much more out of it
in this case the headset is key online
gaming allows people to engage with so
many people from all over the world
all over one particular game they enjoy
you'll likely hear all kinds of people
in all sorts of languages
which helps to build communication
skills this is particularly true for
people with difficulty spending time
with others
in person like friends who live on the
other side of the country
or even in a different way this
unconventional method of communication
helps to build the skills and confidence
necessary
to interact with people in real time
this might save you if you're feeling
shy
or don't know how to start a
conversation face to face
if enhancing your memory is important to
you then video games should be at the
top of your list
you're required to listen to
instructions which might only be
provided at the beginning
and remember them throughout the entire
game
mastering the keys on your keyboard or
buttons on a controller
helps you easily move your characters
and objects in a game
to the point where it just becomes
muscle memory
this helps improve your memory and
dexterity
learning something while playing video
games might make you groan
we often just want to drive that car
build that house
or go into that battle as fast as
possible
but there's a good chance you'll pick up
a few things along the way
no not the stats on that orc on level 17
and it's a weakness to fire potions
early on developers realize that video
games could be used for much more
than improving reading or math skills
for people today
some games incorporate cooking economics
world history
politics science literature architecture
and
other topics you may not have easy
access to
many use actual historical events to
drive their stories
with so much that's happened in the
world it makes sense to use those
ideas too history can come alive to a
player participating in the game
these can spark an interest in learning
more about specific periods of time
historical figures and the universe
itself
start playing a game with dinosaurs and
before you know it
you'll be learning all about them on the
internet action games are very fast
paced
the character might be running and
dodging attacks coming from all
angles while glancing at a map to make
sure they're going the right way
with peripheral images and events
popping up and disappearing
all the time it's not as easy as it
sounds
all these factors need to be taken into
account and that's why
playing more of the same game helps with
the brain's reaction time with our
fingers and hands
those repetitive actions and thoughts
stimulate connections between brain
cells
creating neural pathways between
different parts of your brain
the more you practice a particular
activity the stronger that neural
pathway becomes
that's the structural basis of learning
doing anything repetitively physically
changes the brain with time and effort
you get better at the specific task
you're practicing
whether it's evading and building in a
video game or hitting a baseball out of
the park
physical activity and gaming aren't
things that usually work together
unless you can jog on the spot while
hunting monsters with the future of
virtual reality though
games might be able to make us more fit
than the gym
most major consoles now have the
technology to get people moving
and on their feet there are now mobile
games that can be played in the real
world
they can help to create experiences that
get you exploring your town or city
meeting up with friends or searching for
hidden treasures in secret spots
using video games to explore your
neighborhood or city is a great excuse
to get out of the house for a few hours
where will games take us next every
person who has ever existed has
one thing in common aging while getting
older and wiser has its benefits
there's also a good number of reasons it
isn't so fun
just like maintaining a healthy exercise
routine is good for you
our brain can also be kept in shape
crosswords board games and even suduko
are all brain stimulating exercises
but video games just take our brain to
the next level
while opening up new pathways of thought
in your brain
the developers have ways no one would
have ever thought possible to keep our
brain
sharp and adapting pretty much any task
that requires thinking
will help you exercise and sharpen your
mind and that includes video games
don't sit so close to that tv or you'll
get square eyes
remember that old saying well it's not
great to sit close
games can actually help improve your
eyesight
video gamers have better than average
eyesight who would have thought
staring at a screen can make you see
better a study performed by researchers
from mcmaster university
found that playing video games could
help improve eyesight
games teach the brain to spot small
details follow movements and spotlight
changes
after training for over 40 hours in a
month most patients showed improvement
in one or both eyes
after playing an action video game when
someone asks why you're still playing
that game
just tell them you're improving your
eyesight
in multiplayer video games players often
have to team up with other players
some games even need a designated leader
it's up to that team leader to
communicate with other players
develop strategies identify the team's
strengths and weaknesses
and keep everyone focused on the goal
players have to deal with immediate
problems while keeping long-term
goals at the front of their minds these
skills become
finely tuned over time and adapting to
multiple teams in different gaming
environments and scenarios
in business these are the same
leadership skills that supervisors
managers and ceos have to have
whether you're the leader or just a team
member you're gaining experience that
can be applied to the real world of work
no one likes to hear that crushing
failure moment
noting that all your effort is now gone
you might have to deal with starting the
level again
losing all your points trying to
remember where you dropped your loot
and if you can even get back to it
though it may not be a real life danger
playing a video game raises the stakes
by putting your character and all your
progress on the line
gamers quickly learn how to navigate the
world they're in and get used to
tackling the unknown
with video games you either win or keep
trying
learning from your mistakes as you
progress until you reach the end goal
because of this video games can teach
people to be more confident
and to work towards their goals treating
each misstep
as just another learning opportunity
simple and easy to access video games
can easily make you happier
cause relaxation and even keep away the
blues
heck everyone deserves to take a little
time off for themselves
video games give you a feeling of
well-being which is a human
psychological need
hey don't feel guilty for enjoying
yourself
with so many simple games to choose from
just jump on for a short time
and significantly improve your mood
start looking for a game that you can
really enjoy
and most of all have fun